Follow these simple resume writing tips to ensure you’ve created a resume that reflects why you’re the best possible accounting candidate.

1. Prominently Display Licenses & Certifications
If you’re looking to boost your accounting career, you need to choose a path. Getting a widely recognized certification in the accounting field will help improve your resume and land you better jobs.

Investopedia has an excellent breakdown of the types of accounting certifications you can earn. The bottom line is that earning a CPA is the gold standard, while the other certifications can help give you an edge in niche industries.

So if you’re a corporate banker, a controller, a treasurer, or some other type of specialist, your resume is going to be unique to your experience.

In addition, if you’re trying to find a job that is outside your current specialty, you need to target your resume to prove to the hiring manager that you have the skills to do the job. Don’t overlook this aspect, as it could mean the difference between getting a $60,000 salaried job or not.

2. Show You Have the Necessary Accounting Skills
What kind of skills should you include on your resume? Avoid hobbies and interests — instead, focus on your hard and soft skills and achievements:

Accounting Resume Skills

Include key accounting skills on your resume to show the hiring manager you have what it takes to succeed as an accountant.

The basic accounting skills required for an accountant include more technical skills than many other professions. For instance, your math abilities should be at a high level since errors can end up costing a company or firm a lot of money.

If you specialize in a particular branch of accounting, then you’ll need to include the relevant technical accounting skills on your resume, such as in auditing or how to perform a facilitated risk analysis process (FRAP).

Tip
Sometimes listing a skill isn’t enough — the hiring manager will want to see that you have gained a certification, such as the Certified Public Accountant designation.

You’ll also need strong computer skills to do the job effectively. You should know how to use spreadsheets and software such as QuickBooks, as well as be comfortable using different operating systems, and, since your employer will likely have you working with Windows or MacOS.

Organizational skills also fall under the umbrella of skills needed for accounting. Because you’ll have several projects progressing at the same time, you want to schedule them in a way that helps you avoid missing any deadlines, and keeps you motivated so you don’t get sidetracked.

You must also properly file paperwork (in both physical and digital forms) like receipts and invoices, since this is a government requirement.

If you plan to work as an accountant for private clients, you should work on refining your customer service skills as well. Having the ability to remain patient when your client is being unclear about a problem or when they don’t understand your explanation is an asset to accountants everywhere.

Additionally, good communication skills can help you progress in your accounting career. Communicating well is an important account manager skill at a firm where you don’t have to interact with clients often, since you still need to work within a team.

Tip
This is by no means a complete accounting skills list. There are even more skills for resume examples that you can include to create a great and eye-catching accounting resume skills section.

3. Make a Strong Argument in Your Career Objective
Here is the career objective from the sample resume above:

Certified Public Accountant with 5+ years of experience of ledger processes, reconciliations and streamlining reports. Possess an MBA. Seeking to leverage my professional expertise and experience into a managerial role as a corporate banker.

Model your career objective after this example. Include these three important pieces of information (which have been bolded above):

How many years of experience you have as an accountant, and the main duties you’ve performed
The highest degree you hold, and your certifications
Describe which role you want to fill, and why you’d be a good choice
Short, persuasive, and concise, the career objective is a classic way to start a powerful resume. Make sure you get it right with our helpful resume objective writing guide.

4. Quantify your Professional Experience
Accounting is a numbers-based profession, and your resume needs to reflect that. You can use numbers to describe your job duties, and also impress the hiring manager.

Accountant Facts
You’ll need a Bachelor’s degree for an entry-level job. Source: U.S Bureau of Labor Statistics
Below are some general examples of information you can quantify on an accounting resume:

Size of the budgets you managed
Amount of any investments you’ve managed, and how profitable they were
Net worth of the company you’ve worked for, and what your main duties were for it
The size of the investments you’ve reconciled
The number of the contracts you’ve negotiated
The amount of money you’ve saved or earned the company via your knowledge, experience, and efforts
Above all, your resume should be achievement oriented. Do not repeat bullet points, or list bland and meaningless duties.

The candidate in the sample above quantified their resume in three places (shown in bold):

Trained and supervised 2 new employees, ensuring they maintain fastidious attention to detail
Create financial reports and supported all areas of responsibility within a 5-person finance team
Manage a $350,000 budget, with a reduction of costs totaling 15% over two years
Above all, your resume should be showcase your accomplishments. Do not repeat bullet points, or list bland and meaningless duties.

5. Use Key Action Verbs
Try using some of the below action verbs to add depth, clarity and specificity to your document. Action verbs make great openers for experience bullet points and can also be utilized on cover letters to target them to specific positions. For more action verbiage, check out the famous longest action verbs list in the universe.

Accelerated
Acclimated
Balanced
Bargained
Calculated
Canvassed
Decided
Decentralized
Earned
Eased
Facilitated
Familiarized
Gained
Gathered
Handled
Identified
Illustrated
Launched
Lectured
Lead
Maintained
Managed
Observed
Obtained
Participated
Passed
Raised
Ranked
Safeguarded
Salvaged
Scheduled
Screened
Secured
Tabulated
Tailored
Uncovered
Undertook
Validated
Valued
Voiced
And that’s it! Best of luck on the job hunt, and don’t forget to try our simple, 15 minute resume builder.

Creating a resume can be challenging when you start thinking about all the information you need to share with prospective employers. Your employment history, educational background, skills, and qualifications need to be presented in a way that will help you get selected for a job interview. Rather than a simple list of the jobs you have held, it’s important to include information specific to the positions for which you're applying.

What’s the easiest way to write a resume? If you look at resume building as a step-by-step process, it will be easier to do and much less overwhelming. Once you’ve created your first resume or refreshed your old one, you can simply tweak it to match it up with a job when you’re applying for an open position.

Read on for how to build a resume, the components required in an interview-winning resume, examples of what to include in each section, how to format your resume, options for saving your document, and tips for writing a resume that will catch the attention of hiring managers.

Before You Begin Creating Your Resume
Choose a Word Processor
Before you start to work on your resume, you’ll need a word processor. If you don’t have word processing software installed on your computer, here are free online word processors, like Google Docs, you can use. One of the benefits of working online is that you can update, send, and share your resume from any computer or device you’re using. That makes the application process much simpler because you’ll be able to easily apply for jobs from anywhere that may be convenient for you.

Plan the Framework of Your Resume
Next, consider the basic framework of your resume. More isn’t necessarily better, so aim for conciseness over length. Employers are looking for a synopsis of your credentials; not everything you have done in your career. In many cases, a one-page resume is sufficient. If you have extensive experience, longer may be necessary.

In general, shorter is better, with a few bullet points for each job, brief sentences, descriptions that are action and accomplishment oriented, and plenty of white space on the page.

Your goal is to wow the hiring manager and present a document that promotes you as an ideal candidate for the position. Review these tips for building a resume that will help you get job interviews.

Compile Your Personal and Employment Information


Collect all the information you need to include before you start writing your resume. It’s much easier to write, edit, and format a document when you have all the details you need in front of you.

Before you get started, make a list of the contact information you want to use, all your jobs, your education, training, certifications, skills, and other credentials. 

Write Your Resume

When you have compiled all the information you need, it should be listed in the following order. Don’t worry about fonts and formatting your document yet. Just get everything you want to include on the page. It will be easier to edit when you can see the full picture of your candidacy.

Once you have everything down on paper, you will be able to adjust the font size and type, spacing, and add formatting options to your resume.

What to List in Each Section
Resume Heading
Full Name (Jane M. Applicant or Jane Applicant)
Street Address (options for listing your address)
City, State, Zip
Email Address (don’t use your work email)
Telephone Number (make sure you have a professional voicemail message for missed calls)

Profile
Adding a profile or an objective to your resume gives the employer a brief overview of your qualifications. This is an optional component of a resume. If you include it, focus on what prospective employers are seeking rather than what you want in your next job. Hiring managers want to know what you have to offer.

Summary of Qualifications
A summary of qualifications is another optional section of a resume. It’s a statement that includes your skills, abilities, experience, and what qualifies you for the position.

Experience
Your work history is the most important component of your resume. Employers will want to know where you have worked, when you worked there, and what responsibilities you held in each role that you had. They will be looking to see how your experience lines up with what they are looking for in prospective employees.

List the jobs and internships you have held in reverse chronological order, with the most recent positions first.
For each position, include: job title, company, location, dates of employment, and a bulleted list of the strongest accomplishments for each job.
Verb tense should be present tense for your current job if you are employed, and past tense for prior employment.
If you’re not sure of employment dates, here’s how to recreate your employment history. It’s important to be accurate because employers do conduct background checks.

Volunteer Work
If you have volunteer experience that’s related to the jobs you’re applying for, or if you have volunteered to avoid an employment gap, list volunteering as you would the jobs you have held. Review these tips for including volunteer work on your resume.

Education
The education section generally comes next. You need only to list degrees earned, with the highest first, if you have been out of school for a few years.

If you’re a student or recent graduate, the education section of your resume can be listed above your employment history. If you have work experience, list it below that section. Education should be listed in reverse chronological order, with the most recent and advanced education first. Include the name of the school, the degree earned, and the date you graduated.

Whether you include your GPA on your resume depends on how long ago you graduated and how high your GPA is. Here’s information on when to list your GPA on your resume.

Certifications
The next section of your resume includes any certifications you have.

Awards and Accomplishments
Don’t be shy about mentioning awards and achievements you have earned. They show the employer that you are a well-credentialed candidate who has been recognized for your accomplishments.

Skills
This section of a resume includes the skills you have that are directly related to the job for which you’re applying. Employers typically list required or preferred skills in the job listings when itemizing the qualifications for the position. List your most closely related abilities here, using a bulleted list format.

Personal Interests
If you have personal interests that are strongly related to the position you’re applying for, list them here. This can be helpful if you’re applying for jobs where you don’t have a lot of related work experience, but you do have expertise achieved in other ways.

Choose a Resume Layout


There are three basic types of resume formats you can use. The format you select will depend on your employment history and credentials.

Chronological: This is the most frequently used and presents your work history starting with the most recent job first.
Functional: If you have a spotty work history, you may want to use a functional resume that focuses on your skills and experience.
Combination: This resume layout includes both your skills and your chronological work history.
The chronological format is the most common one.

If you choose a functional or combination resume, tailor the information you include accordingly. With a functional resume, you’ll highlight your job qualifications. With a combination resume, your skills will be listed first, followed by your employment history.

Format Your Resume Text

When you’re choosing fonts for your resume, simple works best. The exception to that rule will be if you’re applying for a design-related position where your resume can showcase your design skills.

Choose a Font: A basic font like Arial, Calibri, Times New Roman, or Verdana is a good choice because your resume needs to be easy for a hiring manager to read. Consistency is also important. Use the same font throughout your resume and in your cover letter.

Font Size and Type: The font style and size can vary. For example, you can use a larger font for your name and section headings. Use bold and italics to highlight the details of your education and employment history.

Lists vs. Paragraphs: A job description that includes a bulleted list of achievements is easier to read than a paragraph. Each sentence should provide a brief synopsis of your strongest accomplishments in the position.

Tip: How to Write Job Descriptions for Your Resume

Review an Example of Resume Formatting
In the following example, the applicant’s name and the heading of each component of the resume are a larger font and bold. The job responsibilities are listed, and italics are used to highlight details of employment and education, and differentiate the candidate’s computer skills.

Jane M. Applicant
31 Main Street Anytown, US 11213
janeapplicant@gmail.com | 555-321-4444

Experience
Ambleside International, Database Manager
January 20XX - Present

Oversee the design, development, maintenance, and management of Ambleside proprietary databases.

Design and manage corporate financial, networking, and operations databases.
Test databases and software programs, correct errors, and make modifications and updates.
Perform regular database and software life-cycle maintenance to ensure the highest level of system performance and compliance with business requirements.
Implement major database and software upgrades with 0 percent downtime.
Ensure integrity, security, and availability compliance and scalability.
Organize, format, and manage data for efficient query and storage processes.
Education
XYZ Institute of Technology, City, State
Bachelor of Science, Information Technology

Certifications
Microsoft Certified Database Administrator
Oracle Certified Professional
Technical Skills
Languages: SQL, Java, .Net, C++ Operating Systems: Windows, Unix, Linux, iOS Database Systems: MS SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, Ingres


Select a file name for your resume that includes your own name when saving your resume: janeapplicantresume.doc, for example. It will be easier for the hiring manager to track your application materials.

Be prepared to save it in a variety of formats, like Microsoft Word, Google Docs, or PDF, for example, so that you can respond to employer requests for a specific type of document.

Tip: How to Select a File Format for Your Resume

Proofread and Print the Final Version

 Before your resume is finalized, it’s important to carefully proofread it. Then print a copy to make sure what’s on the printed page lines up with what’s on your computer.

Once it’s set, print extra copies to bring to interviews with you. If you don’t have a printer you can use, check with your local library or an office supply store to see if you can access a printer there.

Target Your Resume for Each Job You Apply For

Even though your resume is done, there’s one more quick step that will help your resume get selected by the applicant tracking systems that companies use to screen resumes and the hiring managers who read the applications that are selected.

Incorporate the qualifications from the job listing into your resume job descriptions, skills, summary, and objective or profile. It only takes a few minutes, but using the same words and terms the employer uses will help ensure you’re a strong match for the job.
