My name is Louis F. Labuzienski                            	                                       

My education and honors are:
Indiana University - Bloomington, IN
August 2018 - May 2022
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering                               
GPA: 3.97
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science: Software Engineering	                                                            
Minor: Human Centered Computing
Honors: Founders Scholar, Luddy-Schnabel Scholarship, Hutton Honors College Member, Provost Scholarship, 
Dean's Advisory Council Scholarship, and Dean's List.

My work experience includes:
Bowman Creek Educational Ecosystem Design Intern - South Bend, IN 
Summer 2019
  Analyzed qualitative data to create a list of design recommendations for a web-based app that will help people reintegrating into society after prison more easily access social services.
  Conducted and analyzed over 22 interviews with key stakeholders in order to better understand how people access social services.
  Created and manipulated node-edge maps using Kumu and Gephi to visualize how attributes of a user and a social service provider connect.
Resident Assistant for the Luddy Living Learning Center - Bloomington, IN                               August 2019 - Present
  Advised the Executive Leadership Council to facilitate meaningful and productive conversation as well as aid the council to become effective leaders on their floor and in the community.
  Built and maintained a rapport with 100 residents in order to establish a fun and positive learning environment.
  Ensured the safety of students by enforcing the rules and policies of Indiana University and confronting issues of diversity, racism, drug abuse, academic performance, and social acceptance.
  Received the October RA Of The Month award from the Indiana University Chapter of the National Residence Hall Honorary for exhibiting strong leadership and collaboration skills.

My projects include:
Online Intergroup Website Redesign                                                      Summer 2020
Facilitated planning and development with complex stakeholders to agree upon the overall design of the website.
  Designed and developed the website using Figma, WordPress, Elementor interface builder, and custom HTML/CSS.
TechPoint S.O.S. Challenge                                                                                                                              Summer 2020
  Participated in a 5-week challenge to create technical solutions that help Indiana non-profits and community organizations adapt to the new environment during the pandemic.
  Collaborated with various food pantries to better understand their needs and how technology support them.
  Created a website using Django that allows food pantries to better organize their inventories and notify their users.
             
My technical skills include:
Languages: Java, C, Python, Swift, PHP, SQL
Web Design: ReactJs, Django, HTML, CSS, JavaScript
Software: Figma, Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Illustrator, Adobe Premiere, Adobe InDesign, WordPress.
My involvement includes:
Luddy School of Informatics, Computing, and Engineering Ambassador - Bloomington, IN       January 2020-Present                                  
  Participated in different types of information sessions for prospective students that are interested in technology.
Undergraduate Research Assistant - Bloomington, IN                                                 September 2018 - December 2018
  Analyzed 30 hours of live-streamed speedrunning footage to discern why people watch speedrunning.
  Transcribed and coded interviews to better understand why people attend and donate to charitable speedrunning marathons.

My interests are Multimedia Arts, Hiking, Laughter Yoga, Ukulele, Turtles. 
Third-year student at Indiana University Bloomington working towards a degree in Computer Science and a minor in Human-Centered Computing. I want to create new technological solutions and improve upon older ones, but also to combine my technical skills with my people skills. I love to go on hikes, play the ukulele, create silly little projects, and tell fun stories.
Chief of Staff for Luddy Student Government. As Chief of Staff I help manage the team, work with student organizations, organize events, and send out emails to the student body. 
Currently working on a project for Bloomington United called CROWN. Community Response On White Nationalism. I'm working with an industry professional in order to design and create a website that is aimed at the Bloomington Community to understand how to help those being targetted by white nationalism and to help those around them. It is an informational resource and it will hopefully be able to be implemented for other cities as well in Indiana and beyond. 
Currently a part of ServeIT, a program focused on working with non-profits in the Bloomington Community. On a training team focused on design and implementation of a wordpress site. Also get to work with a real client to help redesign their logo. 
I have volunteered in New Orleans to help with hurricane relief in the Lower Ninth Ward over multiple years. I did work on houses including working on porches, painting, tiling, and drywall installation. 