I have known Louie for seven years, going to the same high school and remaining friends. Besides being great friends with Louie, I have had the privilege of working with him on various projects and teams, including Indiana Bar Association Mock Trial (2016 and 2017), various academic film projects (2017), and Bowman Creek Educational Ecosystem Intern at the University of Notre Dame (I worked in 2018, Louie worked in 2019). In these endeavors, I have seen the charisma, passion, and hard work that Louie puts into all that he does. I believe he would be a great addition to your organization and would provide a dynamic and innovative approach to the job.


Louie has always been someone I look toward for advice and comfort. Wise beyond his years, Louie has helped me through the toughest of situations, always with a loving and empathetic approach. Louie is culturally and socially aware of modern day issues and can expertly navigate and advise in this situations. He carries himself with aplomb when dealing with tough issues or hard work. Moreover, Louie always brights up a room. His energetic and eager approach to interacting with people always brings a smile or laugh to said people. When I need cheering up, a good laugh, or advice in a tough situation, Louie is always the first person I go to. 


When working with Louie, he has always been one to put all his effort into a project until its completion. When working with Louie on our Mock Trial team, Louie worked tirelessly as a witness to write a script, memorize lines, and perform with excellence. It is no wonder he won a Best Witness Award in 2017! When working on academic films for classes we jointly took, Louie was able to visualize a finished product for the film, explain such vision to me and others in an understandable and palatable way, and execute the film till his vision is realized. Finally, at Bowman Creek Educational Ecosystem, though in different intern cohorts of different years, I remained in-touch and close to those running the organization. From the project intern to those on his team, all had high praises of Louie's compassion and dedication to working on reintegration strategies for those formally incarcerated in the South Bend area. In both a friendly and professional lens, Louie excels in bringing passion and excitement to all he does


